you got to be the hardest [__]
on the planet is it true i don't give a
[__]
at that time right
it got me to the finish line of that
[__] race
i believed it
i believe it today
i believed it enough to where my body
said
he's not going to stop
what power have you found in the
darkness
first before i answer that question i
want to say everybody listen to this um
i'm
the happiest man on the planet earth
so people may take this and as so many
people do we live in a very weakened
society
so when they hear a throwback guy like
me from back in the ancient days of of
geranimals
they often think this guy is just
whatever so if you think that i'm some
unhappy guy you're wrong having lived
the life i've lived
and
seeing the other side not being afraid
to attack
what was in front of me has made me
happy say that again
in fact let me make sure i understood it
getting to the point where you're not
afraid to face the thing on the other
side of the door that wants to attack
you has made you happy right
right it's really powerful i hope people
heard that right that made me very happy
so
basically i just don't walk around with
a dad gonna smile my face all day in
time so you know merry christmas
but um but basically what the dark side
is
is we all have
a cookie jar
and we all have a jar of [__]
that's its official name it's a jar of
[__] man where [__] just
it just ain't going right
and in hell week what they do in hell
week because this is where i really went
to the dark side
what they do in hell week is they
design hell week
to find your flaws
and they do a really good job of that
it's 130 hours of continuous training
you may get two hours of sleep and they
beat the [__] out of you and find
everything
wrong with your mentality
and then
they start hell week
and that's the beauty of it
and
for me
i'm not some not you know naturally god
giving guy you know i don't have a great
bit of talent in anything
so what got me through horrible times
was the dark side
was i created my name is david goggins
i created goggins
goggins is the guy
that can take anything you put in front
of them you want to break my
[__] legs
so be it
i have a way of going to a place like i
did in that race
where all the pain and suffering that
they put on top of me in hell week
i will reverse that pain and suffering
and i will take your soul
so every instructor that put me through
budge my job what drove me
was i wanted you to go home that night
after you beat the living [__] out of me
and i smiled in your face
i wanted you to feel worse than i did
and you were going home to a nice warm
bed
with your wife or your kids in a nice
meal and i was still out there in the
grip
suffering for another 100 hours
i wanted you to think about me
knowing that i'm comfortable
being very unfucking comfortable and i
want you to think about when you went
through [__] hell week
how uncomfortable you were and how bad
you wanted to quit
knowing i'm not thinking that [__]
way
so the dark side is something that i've
designed
it's the evil place i can go
that
very few things
can hurt me
i use the hurt you're trying to put on
me
i flip it upside down and use it you try
to use it for kryptonite
no
it's power pillars for me i'm using it
for strength i just flipped negative
into positive so it is
i heard you doing an interview one time
and the person was trying to like see
the sort of
empowerment the the beauty in that and
you were like no no
it's darkness
and
one of the reasons that i'm so i'm
utterly fascinated with comic books and
one of the reasons that i'm so intrigued
by batman is he literally uses the
darkness the sickness that he has over
what happened to him and his family to
propel him forward for decades to to
keep driving and it's
most people are broken by the bad things
that happen to them but every now and
then there's a goggins there's somebody
who understands how to use that power to
understand how as a human being it
[__] drives you revenge is powerful
like to
be able to tap into that in a way that's
controlled that's right but to be able
to
bring it in to use it to feel the energy
there is an intoxication to rage and i
don't think people are honest about it
when they talk about it there's a
[__] intoxication to that and if you
can tap into it and leverage it not get
lost to it which is why i know you
always caveated by saying look i'm a
[__] happy guy like that's not what
we're talking about right now right but
i'm a happy guy right so you can't get
overtaken by it but it's there and it is
so [__] powerful it's real that's why
when i when you said before this whole
thing started
you said i can be me
the second you said i can cuss and be me
and cussing people i said man you cost
all the [__] time why
well
i hate to say it the best way for me to
get how i feel across
i can't sit and say you know what yeah i
went through hell weekend man it was it
was really hard
no that [__]
takes your damn soul rips it inside out
and then they say
now we're going to [__] start
it it allows me to express
where i was at at a point of my life
if i don't give you all of me
why the hell am i here
why how will you learn from me
people take so much offense to me
you will never learn from people if we
always tap dance around the truth oh god
i love that we tap dance around the
truth by finding the right word so i
don't hurt you because you have thin
skin
no
tighten up people it's okay trust me
it's okay you might be called [__] one
day
it's okay
you might be called some jewish word or
some [__] or gay word it's okay
let them call you that what are you
going to do now they don't own your life
how are you going to control that now
how are you going to flip it upside down
and say roger that
now i'm going to harness this [__] and
you'll read about me years from now
how that's the question how are you
gonna do that
thicken your skin
become more of a human being don't be
afraid of the reflection in the mirror
because that's all you can be afraid of
once you overcome the reflection in the
mirror
you've done it
i love that man you once said that if
you were growing up in this generation
that you would have a field day because
you would take their souls what did you
mean by that the younger generation
quits
not everybody
so i gotta i gotta put that people get
their butt hurt so not everybody
most of this generation quits the second
they get
talked to
you did this wrong you did this wrong or
they get yelled at it's so easy just you
know to be great nowadays because
everybody else is most people are weak
this this is a softened generation so if
you have any mental toughness
any any ability if you have any fraction
of self-discipline
the ability to
not want to do it but still do it people
have a hard thing to understand i hate
to run and and what makes me so crazy
it doesn't need more is people well why
do you run if you hate it what are you
talking about
i don't want to take showers and eat
either i hate that too
the whole that's a life man
that and and it it wasn't until i
changed that mentality that i became
somebody
i hated going to school so guess what i
was dumb as [__]
that's what
one plus one is two
but if you can get through
to doing things that you hate to do
on the other side is greatness
that's what people understand
by me running i am callous in my mind
i'm not training for a race
i'm training for life
i'm training for the time when i get
that two o'clock in the morning call
that my mom is dead or something happens
tragic in life
i don't fall apart i'm training my mind
and my body my spirit so it's all one so
i can handle what life is gonna throw at
me because the life i've lived
it throws a whole bunch at you
and if you're not physically immensely
prepared for that
you're just gonna crumble and you're
good for nobody
talk to me about what it takes to be on
one side of a door in iraq or anywhere
knowing on the other side of the door
people who are not afraid of you
they're ready for you to come in and you
still have and they have guns and you
still have to breach that door
that's that's a great question it it
that's
a very scary situation when you are
on one side of the door
and your mind is racing because on the
other side of that door
it could be no one
it could be four guys with four ak-47s
that
that door you're about to open can be
booby trapped so once you open it boom
your legs are gone
so
there's a thousand things you think
about when you're the first guy second
guy third guy getting ready to go in a
room and flooding and that's why i talk
about the warrior mentality and that's
why so many people
are lost when i start talking
you have
the right
you're lucky
that you don't have to think like
warriors think you're very privileged i
chose this world to be a warrior and i
would choose it again if i came back to
this world
but the mentality of a warrior is very
different than normal mentality
you must be that person on that door oh
get ready to open it thinking to
yourself
if i die
so be it
the only way you can go in that door is
knowing there's a great chance you're
gonna die it's like being a seal you
train with live ammo you jump on an
airplane every ev everything you do you
could die
so to be a warrior why people don't
understand me i'm glad you don't
understand me merry christmas good on
you because being a warrior takes a
whole different mindset
a whole different mindset to know that
there's a great chance i may not be in
the middle like i was in for 21 years
i'm lucky
i'm very lucky that i'm alive able to
talk to you able to still run
but when you sign up on that dialogue to
be a like a seal your mentality changes
i may not live
you gotta accept that
and that's the mentality you have and
that's what makes you a warrior if
you're scared to die
you're a bad warrior
and so what do you use to push through
is that is that a goggins moment is that
uh finding the darkness i'm going
through hell i'll become the devil if i
have to like what what is that moment
what are you pulling up inside i'm
pulling up a lot of the the dark side of
me but i'm also
looking at the guys to my left and to my
right
realizing that um we're here together
man
and i have to uh
i have to be strong for them
and they gotta be strong for me
a lot of people either you like me or
don't even in the seal teams
but when you get to that door or you get
on that mission or you're getting an op
all that shit's out the door man
you know
you you do it honestly i mean people say
all the time in these movies and [__]
you you really out there fighting for
that guy beside you and you can't be a
coward
because you know what this i look at
everything i do now in life and this
sums it up
i hate it jumping out of airplanes
i hated shooting guns
i hated the job as a navy seal
but i did it because i wanted to
change myself
everything i do i'm not really
comfortable doing
but if you choose to go that route to go
be a navy seal
you might as well go be the hardest
[__] in the world
because if you're choosing to do
something you have two routes you can go
there and be a little a little weak
person and get through barely and that's
your reputation
or you can go through
the hardest guy you can possibly be nice
reputation so my whole thing is if
you're gonna choose to open that [__]
door in iraq or afghanistan open the
[__] and go in hard
because they're going to remember you
by slowly opening it and peeking in
so if you're going to open it and you
made the mind open it don't crack it
open open the [__] door go in that's
with life
if you're choosing to do if you're
choosing to do something attack it
because they're going to remember you
as not attacking it so i want to be
remembered you can hate me but one thing
you can't say about me
i didn't attack it
so that's the mentality you have if
you're gonna do something you might as
well attack it because you could do it
anyway right
do you use that in civilian life like do
you still
employ the i'm gonna attack it i'm gonna
take their souls like how does that play
out in a non-um
combat
zone
it still works for me in in life as far
as attacking things
because uh no matter what i want to you
know no matter what avenue i choose i
want to be the very best
and the very best may not be
i'm number one
the very best is did i leave everything
inside of me
out there
so attacking is not like oh i want to
win this or win that or be the best
the best is i'm i'm running against
myself in everything i do
and and that's and that's what i attack
i attack myself
i'm always questioning myself i'm always
holding myself accountable talk to me
about the accountability mirror
so the accountability mirror is
something that i
kind of came up with in high school
like i said i started shaving my head
when i was 16
and i got caught up in trying to impress
so many people because no one liked me
so i developed so many different
identities let me sag my pants
you know let me okay let me pull my
pants up let me let me talk this way or
act this way or be this way or whatever
the hell it may be god dawg so many
different things i did to try to fit in
with so many different groups
that
when you look in the mirror that's the
one person you can't lie to
so every morning i was shaving my head
thinking god i'll reflect back
on some of the lies i may have told
somebody or some of the ways i acted i
didn't feel comfortable doing and i did
it to impress other normal people
the key were there is normal everyday
people i was trying to make other people
like me
how pathetic is that
so i
this mirror would always tell me my like
my reflection would say god you are a
pathetic man
how does that feel every day to be this
way
so i would just start having myself
accountable how how did i attack today
how did i attack yesterday and if i
didn't do something i was proud of i'd
write down a sticky note
and i would fix it
so then my senior year in high school
it was a totally different david goggins
can you give an example with something
that you wrote down and fixed all right
there was a lunch table that i you know
i wanted to sit the cool guy lunch table
man i wouldn't oh you know you know
everybody's calling me a [__] all the
time i wanted to to
try to act like somebody i wasn't so i
could fit in
and i sold my soul to the devil
you know trying to act like no i'm i'm
david [__] goggins that's who i am
and so i wrote down on a piece of paper
[__] the table
sit by your [__] self
and that's what i did and guess what
happened
my table
became a table people started sitting at
because a whole bunch of people in that
lunchroom
felt exactly like i did
i i had a laundry list of things i just
i i write down in this fix
so i write it down and fix it were there
things that you look to for um
[Music]
role models people that you were like
taking ideas from like why pull your
pants up if that's the popular style
like
what was giving either you were the
single most insightful person i've ever
met which by the way is entirely
possible having listened to enough of
your material
or like you had a treasure trove of
people that gave you great ideas even if
they were like fictional or movie or you
know athletes or whatever but
it was funny man one one movie i watched
all the time was rocky
great choice rocky one
and i related to rocky a lot because of
uh kind of wanting a smart guy just
tried real hard
and the one scene that i related
a lot of my life to still to this day
was rocky 1
round
14. and this is where i got taken souls
from
if you look at round 14 of rocky one
apollo is beating the [__] out of rocky
rocky falls down this corner mickey's
saying stay down stay down rocky didn't
hear a [__] soul apollo after he
knocked him down
turns around
hands in the air like i finally knocked
down this animal right
apollo doesn't know it but rocky is
getting up apollo turns around the
second rocky gets up
and apollo looks at rocky and he apollo
looks at him
with the look of like rocky just took
his soul
he apollo shakes his head and rocky has
his gloves and emotions towards apollo
come on [__] i'm still here
and this song comes on that i played so
when i brought the [__] the guestbook of
royals records it took me 17 hours
to do 4030 pull-ups i listened to one
song for 17 hours
2 minutes and 17 seconds
i listened to that song for
17 hours non-stop on repeat
so the image in my mind
of a man
was not one that had
earrings sagged his pants i i had this
image in my head
and i was going to fulfill that
and i didn't do any trends
i stopped trending i stopped being this
guy whoever was new
[__] it that's not what i believe in i'm
doing this this is what i want to be
this is what i'm going to be
so
it's incredible
um
how do you
experience
beauty and joy in your life what
situations do you put yourself in what
makes you laugh what
what's the fun stuff for you
it's funny you say that um i i just
retired from the military november 2015
and i was going and going and going and
going
and i never really
i was a
a happy guy
but
i'm never in the moment of like sitting
back and
i want to travel here to have fun or do
this and that i've never been that
person but the first time i really got a
chance to experience true happiness and
true peace
was i was
like so what i did to myself to become
who i am today it takes a great toll on
your body
so
i believe god gave me time to rest and
he took me out of commission not even
the mind of goggins or could get me back
up so i had about a good six seven
months when i was out
and when i was out i had time to reflect
on all i'd accomplished
and that was the first time my life
where i sat back and said wow
because only i i may be telling you some
of the story i know the exact truth
of how brutal my life was and how
i shouldn't be on this show today
and how the mind
and how beautiful it is
so
what brings me joy and happiness
is knowing how beautiful the mind is
and i'm one of the few people
that didn't read about it
didn't experience it through some some
drug
i got to experience the beauty of true
[__] willpower
true
[__] you i'm gonna fail i'm gonna
[__] fail i'm gonna [__] fail i'm
gonna [__] fail
and i will succeed
just me talking about that gives me a
feeling i know what i did
and i don't need to travel somewhere or
to have this or have that
i have it all here in my mind
the beauty is remembering this young
dumb what people call
[__] is now where i'm at today
and that is when you finally get to that
point for me
it's forever lasting peace
i do need i could die right now on this
show
and i'll be happy man
so
that's that's my happiness is is my
reflection on
the suffering of my journey knowing i
never quit nor
was i guided
by anybody on this
earth i was guided by something much
more powerful
and i listened
and i chose the path of most resistance
talent
not required
i love that you've said that you lived
the life of a monk
what is what does that mean what does
that look like why do you do that um so
i stretch out every day for these two
hours
i don't drink i don't go out
my regimen is i wake up have oatmeal run
come back hit the weights
um i'm a big sports guy i don't leave
the house
if at all but do stuff like this
and i stress that at nighttime i find
people that i trust which is a very
small group of people people who are
honest and true to me
people who will die for me and i'll die
for them which is a [__] small sure
and everybody else man you know do you
and i stay to myself
and i let you do you i don't judge
people i don't criticize you you want to
be a douchebag and be an ass and not
love this country do you everyone do
i don't care man
i fought for this country for you to do
you
and i am all about you doing you because
i'm going to [__] do me
and i'm going to do me until i'm [__]
dead
and i believe i i earned the right
a lot of people haven't earned the right
just because you live in this country i
mean you earned the right
you gotta you gotta live a little bit
live
and then have something to say
or
shut the [__] up you know
so if you had maybe impossible to answer
but if you had um that same kid from
earlier he wants to take that first step
you want him to go experience some life
what one specific thing would you tell
him to go do i first asked the kid who
are you
at the core of your soul
and if he can
can't answer that question our
conversation's over
because i can't say [__] to him right if
you don't know who you are if you don't
know who you are i can't tell you who
you are there's a concept in your book
that permeates the whole book and i
think really is one of the most
important things for people to
understand in their own life certainly
to understand you and it's the notion of
detesting mediocrity
talk to me about that how do you how did
you instill it in your life how can
other people instill it in theirs it's
one of the biggest things in the world a
lot of us mediocrity is everywhere right
now and we're all trying to find an easy
way out and we're judging ourselves
let's say there's 10 people in this room
and we're all mediocre
but i'm the best
of the mediocre people
i now think i'm great
i'm great we surround ourselves around
people that make us feel great they tell
us what we want to hear the second we
put ourselves amongst the uncommon
people
we don't like that feeling
that challenge and feeling that of that
person is waking at 3 30 in the morning
hey push your [__] on we're going for a
run
we don't like that challenge we like
that person who says hey you know what
man i don't feel good today man and they
say oh it's okay brother we'll take a
day off maybe get a pizza and [__] watch
the game we like that we we love that
feeling why because you understand man
we're good bro we don't want that
[__] like this hey man no bro
get your [__] [__] on man stop being
a punk
we don't want that in our lives we don't
want that person who's constantly
challenging our weaknesses
we want that process constantly you know
making us feel nice and good and secure
in ours that's the mediocrity of life
we want to be the best amongst the
average people
people wonder how do you stay
hungry all the time because after i
accomplish something i don't sit back
like a lot of guys who graduate buds
graduate this graduate that they get
comfortable they wonder why i'm getting
weak man i don't know i lost my edge
what's going on because once you hit the
top of the [__] mountain guess what
happened
i'm good
i'm good so you wonder why you're
falling down now because once you be top
of the mountain you gotta build a
[__] another one that's mediocrity
there's a lot of people in mediocrity
who have a nice resume
but they're one-timers man they hit they
hit a one-time deal they busted it open
got a lot of money but they're good
you're a mediocre now man
what are you [__] doing today
tomorrow the next [__] day that's why
i'm listening to theorists
i don't listen all that [__] i
listen to a [__] who's like this
man
what's wrong man i'm [__] tired dude
why are you tired because tomorrow
i gotta do the [__] [__] again man
whatever the [__] is that made me
[__] nauseous and sick to my stomach
it made me hurt
there's no ending
and that's the person i listen to
that's the person who's gained knowledge
you gain knowledge through suffering and
on the other end of suffering
is a world that very few
very few have ever seen it's a beautiful
world because that's where you find
yourself
you don't find yourself in over here you
find yourself on the other end like the
100 mile race i was on i ran for 24
hours
i found myself
on the other end of that [__] race
that 19 hours i found wow
there's a whole nother [__] world out
here that never even saw the world is in
your mind
and that's what all that mediocrity is
about mediocre is contagious
talk to me about not getting civilized
not given civilized is
about having a savage mentality
civilized is something where people um
it's a it's a comfortable world
a lot of us say you know like for
instance i see these athletes right now
who retire
you know i'm 38 you know i'm 39 i did 20
years at the top of my game and i'm
chilling out now you see them a year
later and how they look
what the hell just happened to you dude
what the hell you're one of the greatest
athletes of all time
kids looked up to you women men of all
ages looked up to you
and they hit the pinnacle where it's
time to retire and their mind says
i'm civilized the worst thing that could
ever happen to any human being
is they become civilized it's that total
accountability like even when you retire
there's a [__] looking at me and
judging me right now man
i'm i was the baddest person to ever
live
it doesn't go away man
you got to wake up even though you
retired you're never retired
you're setting the example every single
day of your life
and being civilized feels so good i'm
sorry man
once you get to the top
you may retire but you ain't never
coming back home man because now you're
judged
people see you falling off
you want to be that guy who knows i may
be retired from the sport or forever i
did
but i'll be damned
if you ever see me looking like [__]
feeling like [__] not arriving
people i've arrived
i've arrived mentality you're always
setting the example civilization feels
so good
these comfortable feelings are what
people want they want retirement
they want that they need that they it's
a yearning feeling
i want it too
people love putting a label on me about
my god man you're just wired different
not [__] wired different dude
i'm thinking right now after i got past
my stuttering thing now i'm on a roll
i'm good now you know what i'm thinking
about right now i gotta [__] wake up
tomorrow and do the same [__] again i
gotta leave this [__] interview and
go stretch out for two and a half hours
i hate that [__]
but guess what it does though
i'm constantly callousing over my
victim's mentality that i once had
growing up
every day you have to do this [__]
because why when you stop doing it you
don't just maintain it if you stop
shooting a gun you're not going to be a
great shot if you pick a gun up a year
from now
the only way to keep from getting rusty
is to constantly owe that [__]
machine the machine is this
you got to keep challenging it every day
the way that i think about that is very
very similar and i've got to imagine
this is one of the things that makes you
one of the most misunderstood humans on
the planet
is
to me driving that hard being that
hungry pushing long after everybody
stops
has nothing to do with anybody but
myself and what i
my drug of choice
is how i feel about myself when i'm by
myself
like nobody knows how
hard i work
and nobody's ever going to know not even
my wife is up enough to see how much i
really work right
but it doesn't matter because the way
that it makes me feel like in this
moment right now where i get to say ah
the world doesn't know i could be lying
but i would know and the way that i feel
right now because i know how true it is
that nobody's outworking me
[Music]
that to me is the jews and when people
understand that what you're fighting to
build the reason that i'm wearing a
shirt that says what would goggins do
the reason that i chant goggins like the
crowd before he started rolling the
camera was chanting goggins
the reason that's so resonant is because
they want to do something for themselves
they want to feel some kind of way about
themselves
[Music]
now that you've become like this big ass
speaker
what do people come up to you and ask
you the most
how do i do it
how am i able to do what i do on a daily
basis
you know how do i fight the demons
because they hear me speak and i'm very
raw and real
how do you
fight my insecurities all these things
and uh
they're there every day
the day every day like you said i'm
in a search for a feeling
i'm not in the search for a trophy i'm
not in search for love not so much for
more followers on instagram or social
media
when i started this journey
years ago
and i realized that i'm going to be
somebody and i'm searching for a feeling
a feeling of true victory for myself and
only myself the second i shut out the
whole world
and realized that one thing that i am in
this world alone
i'm fighting in this race by myself
yeah i'm all about people i'm all about
team i'm all about that [__]
but i'm really all about right now and
in my life
just like you said no one knows
the real truth about me how hard i
really go
i don't care if anybody knows i don't
want anybody to know
i'm an introvert i live an introverted
life
and i love that about me it
that right there is my fuel
is i know that there's really no one out
there grinding like me and if they are
so be it if i know about you i'll make
sure that my gang
that's what the mentality is all about
my whole thing is a mentality thing like
i told you in the last times on the show
i view myself as the weakest person on
the planet earth
my goal in life
was to
in my mind believe i'm the hardest man
alive
and that's why the whole thing is can't
hurt me
that's what it's about it's about
whatever you think you are you have to
make that dream a reality but that's
where
the hard part is
is making that dream reality that's
where the hard work comes that's where
people know how do you keep grinding
every day
you have to make those insecurities
those fears like when i was 300 pounds i
didn't have any drive i'm gonna go be a
navy seal what kind of stupid [__] is
that 300 pounds
there wasn't like a drive to go be a
navy seal i was an insecure lying kid
afraid
i had to
look in my insecurities
and in my fear and find drive in that
we're all looking for passion
passions all around you
you have a whole a whole [__] stack
of it all around you it's your
insecurities all that [__] you gotta
dive deep in that [__] all it's all in
there
all the energy and fuel you need is
right in yourself
it's all there
you got a lot of stuff to do to overcome
and you know that's where i found it i
found it right there i'm on insecurities
i found drive in my own insecurities
and that's that's the most powerful
thing in the world when you can find
drive in your own doubt
fear
insecurities
you become very unstoppable
you may have just changed me at a deep
and fundamental level i've never thought
about it like that so the number one
question i get asked is how do i find my
passion to which the answer is um very
rudimentary and maybe ultimately not as
true and powerful as what you just said
which is
there's another thing i need to tie this
to that you talk about in the book which
is people have lost touch with their
bodies
and you always tell people if you want
to change go do something physically
[__] demanding like go find yourself
in the suffering and in the pain of
doing something with your body yes
it is utterly fascinating to me it's
just hitting me now i'd never heard you
say that before so i i'll reserve final
judgment for round three when we come
back together but
the thought of you feel lost you feel
insecure you don't have a passion you
don't know what to do you're reaching
out to somebody you need that help you
know you could do more be more and the
answer is you in the last interview we
did you called it the bag of [__] if i
remember right yes you reach in to the
bag of [__] and start
changing those one by one
that may be the most extraordinary piece
of advice i've ever heard in fact i will
say the way it's hitting me right now
that's the single most extraordinary
piece of advice for self-transformation
i've ever heard
is the truth
who is sitting here right now today
this is the real me obviously
but um
i'm gonna go kind of
i'm a very
philosophical person
and i'm gonna go there with you real
quick
i believe in the higher power don't know
the name don't know where it's coming
from don't anything like that but i
believe that
this power
and visualizing me real quick
let's say it's a man up there or a woman
whatever and they have a chart
and when you're born
they say david goggins
born february 17 1975 at 6 00 am
they write the chart down because they
can see everything they know exactly
what you're so [__] supposed to be
they know what you're supposed to be
you die you go to so-called heaven
you arrive at heaven i'm 300 pounds
i retired as an eco-lab guy which is
okay just a job whatever
i go up there and god
looks at me and he shows me my chart
and my chart on there says you were
supposed to be a navy seal
you're supposed to weigh 185 pounds
you're supposed to be one of the
smartest people on the planet this this
all this you see this
and now you're in heaven you made it to
heaven but you're like god i was
supposed to live that life
i was supposed to live that life and
then you find out that the reason why
because we all think that if we pray on
it if we do this if we do that whatever
if we don't work we just whatever it
could magically happen for us
no
i believe that when i'm all said and
done with my whole job is to outwork the
chart
whatever the [__] chart says about me
the all-knowing power up there i want to
get up there and say him look at me and
say
i know everything
i didn't [__] see this
i want to feel that i want to get to the
other end of this [__] world
and however i'm being judged
whoever's judging me to look at me and
say i did not [__] know i i had you
at 185 had you did this but all this
other [__] i was writing as you were
living it
i want to
i want to find more
all i can and in that [__] sack of
[__]
you have to dive in that
to find more
because if you're not willing to go in
there and face yourself
you're not gonna find anything
you're gonna live right here on surface
man right here on surface
so there is an ending to this world and
there is somewhere to go and there's a
judgment
you're gonna get there and you might see
a chart
and that chart may tell you who the [__]
you should have been and now you get the
rest your life to think about that man i
could live a much better life if i just
would have just suffered a little bit
more if i just would have went in that
[__] and realized i had so much more but
fear in the 40 and living here versus
living here
being afraid
stop me
so that's i i'm a big guy in visualizing
i'm a big guy in making a world it may
not exist
to me it does
and
i'm overpowering myself every day
and you gotta find tools to do that
that's the tool that i use
so that's what it's all about
god damn
you said in the book that the only thing
to fear is the man staring back at you
in the mirror i thought that was
insanely powerful and seems tied to this
is there something else to that or is is
that what you're talking about that's
all i'm talking about like your
your biggest enemy
your biggest
the most important
conversation
you will ever have in your [__] life
is the one you have with yourself
you wake up with it you walk around with
it you go to bed with it eventually
you're going to act on it
whether you're good or bad
you have to that's why the whole thing
about this book i have it's about you
it is about you
it's strictly about you finding who you
are so many people die
live a hundred years never [__] know
who they are
never know who they are you have to look
in that mirror and know this there's so
much more in here man
because i can literally right now be a
300 pound guy spraying for cockroaches
still to this day if i did not look in
that mirror and say there has to be more
to this
this can't be it
and then willing to go into it dive deep
into it and give all i have to find it
so that's what is that's what all that's
about
in all that you've done and all that
you've been through
help me understand when you were given
the you did not have a happy childhood i
think that would be very fair to say
when you were given the vfw award
recently and you were listening to
people that had impacted you and you got
to your mom
you couldn't even speak
yeah uh
it almost chokes me up now
um so i got the vfw award for the
for the um americanism award
for military service and giving back
i'm as human as human can be
that's why what you see is what you get
um
at that moment when i was giving my
speech and i thank my uncle for being
there and i got to my mom
it wasn't just about her
it was
i i i know what she went through i know
what i went through and we got knocked
down so much
i had a moment in front of all these
great american heroes
where i had a chance it was like so fast
it went through me like like lightning
of i can't believe
i'm here
i can't believe i'm getting the ward
like this
that
that kid who was in the fetal position
the majority of his life
and so much the fact that my body my hip
flexors are tight to this day
that even though i was standing erect
my mind was in the fetal position
and when i looked out amongst all those
people
it was a sense of pride
that
i can't even
i can't even explain it's the moments of
three hell weeks it's the moments of
in that room by myself studying for
hours and hours and i was trying to
catch up with all the kids who are above
me
it's just those moments
like the real raw moments of life
that was like boom hit me
and we're gone but i was like i did that
i overcame that [__] you know it's like
this is power behind all that [__]
and
that's the feeling i was looking for in
my life i found it wasn't money it
wasn't fame it wasn't awards it was it
was that feeling i have right now
that feels i'm about to break down
but it's not of like oh my god i'm upset
it's like i worked
myself
so hard
that i turned
a person this [__] up
into this [__] right here not
off of reading a [__] book off a
theorist
off of going to work on myself and
saying i don't know how to do this
but i know that to get over there that
[__] side
i gotta grind myself into a [__] fine
powder
and i did it
i did it all for sure will
and
very few people will know how that feels
hello my friend you know that i believe
success requires you to see failure as
the ultimate learning tool success
requires you to be disciplined and
gritty and to never ever quit on your
dreams i say all of that because one
thing is certain the road to achieving
your goal is not smooth or linear i wish
it was but it's not it's going to be
bumpy sometimes scary some days you'll
take two steps forward and slide 10
steps back and that's why success also
requires you to know how to pull
yourself out of a rut and get unstuck
fast life is short you can't be messing
around with your goals you've got to
make progress every single day so i've
pulled a class from impact theory
university called how to get unstuck
which you can watch for free with the
link on your screen or by clicking below
when you join me for that free preview
of that workshop from impact theory
university i'm going to teach you my
strategy for how to
understand exactly where you need to be
going how to identify the obstacle
that's blocking you and the best way to
make the most progress towards that goal
and keep your momentum right click that
link and let's get to work all right
i'll see you on the inside
the things you've done are absolutely
incredible but what i find fascinating
is if you just read your
litany of
things that you've accomplished you do
just assume oh you must be really gifted
you're shredded you're in great shape
but when you see the before picture it's
pretty startling right so what was that
moment like
looking in the mirror the day you decide
okay wait enough is enough
well it was pretty crazy for me it um it
took a while to get to that point
where enough was enough
what happened i i came home one night
from work spraying for cockroaches
and
um long story short i turned on the um
discovery channel i saw some guys going
to navy seal training
and they're going through hell week and
they're getting their ass just beat you
know in and out of the water guys
ringing the bell
um there's suffering and i was weighing
like 297 pounds
and i had to make a change in my life
you know i was at all time low
and i wasn't going anywhere and i was
exactly what everybody said i was going
to be which was nothing
so i had to make a change
what was it about seeing suffering
that's that's really interesting i
actually get it but i want to hear you
explain it why
suffering was the thing that triggered
that thought
well for me growing up i came from a
horrible background i got called [__]
every day of my life growing up
lived in a small town
the klan headquarters at that time was
about
um
20 minutes from where i lived
the uh
one of the high ups in the kkk son sat
behind me in two classes so he called me
[__] all the time got my first car
they spray printed [__] we're gonna
kill you on it so
i was just an insecure scared kid
and the only way i could find myself
was to put myself through the worst
thing possible
how did you have the insight though like
that's so counterintuitive like most
people that's precisely what they're
trying to get away from right so what
was it in you at that moment you're
overweight you've been bullied
essentially your entire life up to that
point what makes you go all right
[__] like
that that's what i've got to do well no
one was helping me out so my mom
my dad made my mom kind of irregular so
she worked three jobs went to college
full time so she was never around
one time this this person drew a picture
of me and you know said we're going to
kill you [__] on my spanish notebook
and i took it to my principal and my
principal said they spilled [__] niger
that was the best advice he can give me
so long story short what i realized was
no one was here to help me
and the feeling i had every morning i
started shaving my head when i was 16
years old
and the feeling i had every morning i
looked in the mirror
was horrible
and i didn't want to feel like that
anymore and how i felt was a kid going
nowhere a kid that was scared and most
kids will accept that and look for help
but the best thing that happened to me
no one helped me
no one felt sorry for me
no one looked at me and said like this
day and age they'll they'll take you in
and they'll tell everybody stop picking
on this person back then they didn't
care the kkk marched in our fourth july
parades
they had to stay a hundred yards back
but they marched in it wow that's how
this town was and my mom cared about me
but my dad took our soul
and she you know did the best she could
i had to figure out
i wasn't going to be a punk kid all my
life
so the only way i could turn around
was to suffer
i had to build calluses in my brain
the same way i built calluses on my
hands so i broke the ginsberger royal's
record for pulps a long time ago
but i failed at it twice
and i did 67 000 pull-ups
and trying to break this record
so to do 4030 pull-ups
i had to do 67 000 for training for that
wow and so what i realized is for me to
become the man i wanted to become i saw
myself as the weakest person god ever
created
but i never blamed god for anything he
did to me
so i wanted to change
that to be the hardest man ever created
am i that i don't know but you had to
have a goal right and my goal when i was
sitting there
not going to school being bullied being
having no self-esteem
my goal was the only person that's going
to turn this person around is me the
only way i can turn around is put myself
through the worst
things possible a human being can ever
endure and that'll be the only way that
i can build this brain to handle
anything that comes in front of it
callousing my mind through pain and
suffering that's so powerful it's such
an amazing insight so obviously
listening to some of the stuff that
you're talking about and one thing that
you say often is you know it's it's hard
to
stay hard or get hard when you're living
in you know like you even said at one
point in a big mansion in beverly hills
right so i was sitting there thinking
you're absolutely right but what i find
so interesting is how we
as a species
run from pain we run from suffering and
one of the reasons i've talked about
this before but one of the reasons my
wife and i don't have kids is i firmly
believe that you need something that is
brutal is difficult is hardship it
knocks you off center it makes you feel
bad because in the process of rebuilding
and clawing back from that climbing up
then you can become something but you
unless you've been tested unless you've
gone through the ringer you've got no
hope so how do you take somebody that
you love and force them through that and
i think that
what you've done is maybe the ultimate
expression of that which is how do you
put yourself through it or you don't
have to do any of that so
in the end like what would your advice
be to that 16 year old kid who's staring
in the mirror does not like what he sees
but is still running from adversity
well my biggest advice to him is that
first of all he won't like what i say to
him because i'm going to say the exact
opposite of what the world today's world
is saying so we read a bunch of books
nowadays as humans we we want to find
out how to be someone else
what we don't do is we don't go
inside
so literally turn yourself inside out
read the book that says like we're
writing a book every day of our lives
but we never read that book
so what i would challenge this young man
or young woman to do
is you have to look inside of yourself
to see what you really want what are you
passionate about we use these words and
these little phrases of only the strong
survive and also the crap they're all
just [__] words
i get so tired of hearing people just
talking like right now someone may think
goggin's just talking
you don't know me so when i speak i
speak from passion i speak from
experience i i speak from suffering
i have to tell this young man and woman
that the only way i believe and this is
just my experience in life
the only way you're ever going to get to
the other side of this journey
is you have got to suffer to grow
to grow you must suffer
and
some people will get it and some people
won't but they have to see what their
journey is to start their journey
several people live to be a hundred
years old and they have great lives and
they have great kids their kids go to
college and lost their stuff
but somewhere in their life
there was a point where they had a
decision to make
they can go left or right on this path
left was the easy route right was a hard
route
a lot of people take the easy route and
they had a good life that way
but the better life was going to the
right side
and you may have 20 years of pain and
suffering to get past it
but a lot of us died never truly
starting our journey
and
i would tell this young person you got
to start your journey it may suck
but it will it will come out the other
side where you're coasting
so it's really i want to go back to what
you're saying about that we write our
own book writing it every day but we
actually don't take the time to read it
so what do you think as you were saying
that here's what i was saying tell me if
this is where you were going that
basically you're
you're writing down these things that
are sort of
becoming your identity about being weak
about avoiding suffering about
um
being soft essentially i mean all like
all the things sort of by default
they're in that camp and as you were
saying that i was imagining you sort of
taking that pen and beginning to write
your own story and writing things that
you knew
looking back on that you would be proud
of right like going through the military
and doing the hardest training some of
the ultra endurance stuff that you've
done which is unbroken feet i mean it's
like so crazy in fact it one is that
what you meant
by writing that story so what i meant by
that is like every day
we're seeing who we are as people when i
was growing up
i i lied for people to accept me because
i didn't accept myself
so i would make up stories so then you
would accept me into your world
i would uh everything i did was for
someone else to like me it wasn't until
i started reading my own book about how
pathetic i was as a human being i can
blame my dad i can blame kids at school
i can blame having health issues atd my
mom not being around great mom but she
was doing her thing right i could blame
a lot of people
and that's the book i was reading
and i put it off on everybody else it
wasn't until i said you know what for me
to fix this i gotta read what the hell
what the [__] is wrong with david
goggins not not blame anybody
read my book it's okay i'm afraid of my
shadow
how can i overcome that
go in the military get your ass kicked
do things you hate to do be
uncomfortable every [__] day of your
life roger that
i'm not the smartest kid in the world
okay
he said somebody's saying oh no you're
smart no no don't say that to yourself i
said to myself no i'm a dumb
[__]
okay roger that how you get smarter
educate yourself
so the things that we run from we're
running from the truth
we're running from the truth man so the
only way i became successful
was going towards the truth as painful
and as brutal
as it is
it changed me
it allowed me to become
in my own right
who i am today
one of the most powerful things i think
anybody can do and this so
i used to struggle with self-esteem and
my thing was i focused on being smart
and i just wasn't that smart i focused
on being right and i was wrong a lot and
so it created this weird um thing in my
life where i would constantly try to put
myself around people who are less and
less intelligent so that i could feel
good about myself and the bad news is
actually really good strategy for that
right being around people that were less
intelligent than me really did make me
feel good like i felt good about myself
but i literally referred to myself at
the time as the king of remedial jobs
because that those were the only jobs
that i could really shine at
and it wasn't until i realized i can
actually change what i build my
self-esteem around and i can start
building my self-esteem around instead
of being right or being smart being a
learner and being willing to admit when
i'm wrong and so the thing that i began
to build my self-esteem around was
being willing and able to stare at my
inadequacies right right what you said
like i fully understand like how this um
this interview is going to be and you
warned me ahead of time this interview
is going to be bifurcating people are
going to love it and some people are
going to hate it and but dude i
so believe in the notion of looking at
yourself and if you are pathetic owning
it right and saying
because my thing is you can change it
right which you have proven in no
uncertain terms that's it but if you
don't admit it you're never going to be
on the path to changing it exactly
walk us through because this is one of
those crazy stories i'd i can't imagine
how you pulled this off
your first ultra marathon which you got
into like really fast and one why you
did it i think that's incredible it so
this the first ultra marathon wasn't
smart at all
at all
um
just so basically what happened was i
was at military free fall school with
morgan latrell
marcus cettrell if you guys don't know
was the lone survivor of the guy
he um was in a bad op off went bad he
was the only navy so that lived
long story short you got to get the book
read loan survivor great story morgan is
marcus charles twin brother and i was
there with marcus so what happened was
myself and morgan were in free fall
school at the same exact time marcus
was in the worst incident in still
history so i knew that marcus might be
dead he wasn't dead everybody else was
dead so i actually brought
morgan you know i actually told morgan
hey man your brother wasn't a bad
incident i don't know if he's alive i
don't know what's going on
long story short marcus is alive
and i go on to want to raise money for
families all these guys died they all
had kids i want to raise money for the
special operations warrior foundation
it's a foundation where 100 tuition goes
to
these kids to go to college you know
full tuition whatever
so i found this great foundation i'm
going to raise money for it so i said
you know what i have to google something
that's that's evil something very hard i
knew nothing about ultra marathons i
hadn't even run a marathon i knew
nothing about this world
so i googled that you know the top 10
hardest races in the world and what
comes up is a bad water 135. it's a
135-mile race through death valley in
the summer time
i thought it was a stage race
i thought it was a race where you run
like 20 miles set up camp you know
barbecue outside and then go run some
more the next day
so i called the race director up at the
race and said hey chris his name is
chris cosman i want to do your race so
we had a long conversation you know i
was i was much heavier than
and i hadn't put running shoes on over a
year how heavy are you at this point i'm
around between 240 to 270. whoa i'm in
there i'm in that range i've my weight
has buried a lot through the sealed
teams and out of this hill team so i was
a heavy guy but the long and short of it
all was i hadn't put running shoes on in
over a year i was a big time power
lifter i lifted weights heavy that's
what i did right i just got back home
from iraq went straight to free fall
school and then this happened so i
called chris kossman up on a wednesday
he says look man the only way you can
qualify for my race is to run 100 miles
at one time
in 24 hours or less
there happened to be a race
that saturday so four days later
and he said if you qualify by running
100 miles or less in 24 hours i will
consider you my race
i'm gonna cut to the chase
i signed up for this race it's called
the san diego one day where you run
around a one mile track for 24 hours to
see many miles you can get my goal was
100 miles
so
um i got to mile 70
and i cleared 70 miles in like 12 13
hours pretty quickly
but i was done my feet were broken
i was stretch fractures shin splints
muscles were tearing i was in bad shape
i was eating rich crackers and drinking
bioclips
that's all i had
no water didn't know what the hell i was
doing out there had on some tube socks
it was just ridiculous it was it was a
clown show
so
i sat down at mile 70 and at this time i
was married
and i i look at my wife and i was like
i'm i'm messed up bad
so i literally start to turn white and
when a black guy turns white you're
pretty [__] up
so
here i am i'm all [__] up in this
chair
i'm at mile 70. if i got 30 [__]
miles to go i'm jacked up i got to go to
the bathroom the bathroom's like 20 feet
from me it's a porta potty
i can't get out of the [__] chair so
i'm peeing blood down my leg whoa
pooping up my [__] back
and i got 30 miles to go
and i'm i can't stand up cause my my
blood pressure's all messed up i've been
in three hell weeks ranger school
overcome so many obstacles in my life
this last 30 miles of this race
is when i realized
a human being
is not so human anymore
we have the ability to go in such a
space
if you're willing to suffer
and i mean suffer your brain and your
body once connected together can do
anything
in this 30 miles was the life-changing
moment
i was out of it i was in the worst pain
in my entire life
i was to me
on the brink of death
and i was able to chunk this 30 damn
miles
into small pieces i was so driven
and i'm not going to say motivated
because motivation is crap motivation
comes and goes
when you're driven whatever's in front
of you will get destroyed
so
i sat in this chair and i was so driven
to succeed in this race and at this time
everybody goes were you thinking about
the guys that died and
i'm not gonna lie to you i wasn't
this became a personal
thing
this became me against this race me
against the kids that called me [__]
me against me
it it it just became something that i
took so
so violently personal
and i broke this thing down into small
pieces i said okay i gotta get nutrition
i gotta be able to stand up before i can
get off this curb and get off this chair
and be able to go 30 miles
so i went through all these small steps
and i was able to stand up
and then from staying up
i was literally walking around with my
wife at the time and she goes you're not
going to make the time she goes you're
running
you're walking like 30 to some minute
miles
i got to mile 81
and the second she said that i'm not
gonna make the time
i ran the last 19 miles nonstop
and i can show you right now when we get
done with this matter of fact i'm going
to show you right now
this was years ago
and i had to put compression tape
on my ankle
and i had so this was years ago
i had
literally the size of half dollars
i had to get compression tape and i
taped up my ankles and i taped up my
feet
and that's how i got through that race
was it like a hematoma i mean what do we
no see what happened was like my shins
hurt so bad from having stretch
fractures that the only way i can
continue on was i taped it so i wasn't
doing the flexure motion that that
activates
your your shins
so i taped my ankles and my shins up and
i got that from
because in my third hell week they won't
let me go back through you know train
anymore right
so i literally went through
all the buds my last seal training with
stretch fractures and shin splints and
how i did it was i would take my ankles
all the way up to my calf every morning
so for the first hour the pain was
excruciating but what happened is my
feet would go numb
and i did that every single day for six
months
whoa and that's how i got through my
third healthy because i was so broken
from the first two
that the commander said hey the ceo said
this your last time or send you through
so that's how i got the idea
to do that so
with the right and people may listen to
this and say
this guy is sadistic he's crazy he's
no if you know how i came up
you realize i was just
a scared kid
that found drive and passion to be
something much better than what he
thought he was that's all it is god i'm
gonna ask the question i uh
i don't know if you have a good answer
for this i don't know if there is a good
answer for this but even i want to know
how do you find and cultivate that drive
like there is a kid right now watching
this man and they feel like you felt
they feel
lost alone broken stupid lazy
like they're never going to amount to
anything and what you're talking about
is the closest thing to a [__]
superpower that this kid has ever heard
and right now he is on the edge of his
seat how does he
how does he like force himself to take
that first step
i'm very fortunate that i grew up at a
time when there was no phones
and there was no social media
and i suggest yes i'm on social media on
a very limited basis because i have a
story to tell
and it's a great platform
use it as a platform don't use it as
your life
my biggest advice to give everybody in
the world
is like i say we live in an external
world
everything is is you got to see it touch
it it's external
if you can for
the rest of your life live inside of
yourself
stop listening to people who are calling
you fat gay transsexual [__]
everything that is makes no sense all
these insecure people putting their
insecurities on you you got to flush it
out
you got to just be whoever the hell god
or whatever the hell you believe in if
you believe in nothing but yourself i
don't care what it is
you got to take everything and throw it
away
you have to believe in one thing and
that is yourself
and and i'm not saying don't believe in
god or what you believe in but right now
for you to find
greatness in yourself
you're not going to find it by looking
in a book or by even hearing me i may
give you the spark
but you've got to go inside yourself to
find it and that means you gotta be
quiet
shut the [__] up go in a room stop
talking search your soul search your
mind search your abilities and you'll
find it
but if you're not looking for it
you won't find it
so you got to go start your journey and
the journey starts with you finding why
the hell am i here on this planet earth
why am i here
if you don't know that you will live the
rest of your life searching always
asking the question why
so
on that last
19 miles
feet are broken ankles are taped shin
splints stress fractures
what are the words that are going
through your mind are you in the cookie
jar
i'm deep in the cookie jar and the
cookie jar
is something that i've made up of all
the
failures of my life all the things that
i was i failed and i went back i failed
and i went back and i finally succeeded
all the things that kicked my ass i put
them on the cookie jar because at times
of hell
even the hardest men in times of
suffering what we do is we forget how
hard we really are because that's what
suffering is
suffering is a test it's all it is
suffering is the true test of life
and so that cookie jar travels in my
brain so whenever i get put in a
situation where i have poopy pants the
woe was me mentality of oh my god
life sucks
i take a second i take the one second
decision i step out of my life for one
second go in the cookie jar pull up oh
[__] you went you were in three
hell weeks and finished two one of those
whole weeks a guy died and because it
was so bad
oh you are [__] bad ass
you are i put it back in the cookie jar
and i remember who the [__] i really am
i'm not the kid that got that that was
called [__] i'm not the scared kid
this is who i am
it's a reminder of who you truly are at
the core of yourself
but what i was saying to myself the
whole time on that track
and it and this is what i say to myself
self-talk
and visualization are two keys to my
success
i believed
for that last time 19 miles i was
indestructible
because i took myself in that chair
crapping up my back peeing blood in my
leg shin splint stretch fractures
i use all that for motivation versus
negativity i use it for motivation i i
said to myself who on this [__] earth
would still be going right now
you are
you got to be the hardest [__]
on the planet is it true i don't give a
[__]
at that time right it got me to the
finish line of that [__] race
i believed it i believe it today
i believed it enough to where my body
said
he's not gonna stop
and that's i took all the negative
things i need to go to the hospital this
and that and i use uh who the hell could
even get on that chair you did
who the hell would you think about
taping stress fractures up you did all
those things i used for motivation
all right my friend i have a big
announcement my incredible and talented
wife lisa is about to launch her new
book radical confidence in it she has
managed to perfectly capture the process
of how to go from feeling lost and
insecure to taking control of your life
and doing amazing things despite feeling
fear sometimes a lot of fear now let me
tell you nobody knows lisa better than
me but when i read radical confidence
for the first time and heard her
describe what it was like for her to go
from having these big exciting dreams as
a kid to then as an adult scheduling her
life around the tv shows that she wanted
to watch or how lonely and isolated she
felt instead of pursuing her dreams it
was brutal for me i would never say
though that it was worth it for her to
go through all of that just so that she
could write something down that allows
others to avoid it but i will say that
at least she was able to capture the
strategies that she used to break out of
that rut find her voice and begin doing
incredible things despite her
insecurities and fears that she wasn't
going to be good enough to achieve great
things so while it hurts me to know the
dark place that lisa went through i
really am excited for people who are
going through something similar right
now to read this book radical confidence
is an instruction manual for how to
become the hero of your own life even
when you're scared to death look i know
better than just about anybody how easy
it is to get off track in life or to
just not have yet found your calling and
it's even easier for people to feel so
insecure and unprepared that they don't
even want to pursue the things that they
want but what lisa shows people in
radical confidence is that the radical
part is that you can accomplish
extraordinary things even when you feel
fear that's what radical confidence is
being afraid and unsure and having a
tool kit that allows you to still make
massive progress pre-order your copy
today because if you act now you can
claim the bonuses that lisa has created
for you at
radicalconfidence.com they're only
available if you pre-order so act now
then once you've done that we'll get
back to today's episode alright guys
read the book and get ready to be the
hero of your own life peace out
i'm really i mean as evidenced by the
show that i'm wearing i really am that
guy that like put your picture up and it
was just became this reminder of
of what we can all do if we're willing
to push past that pain and all of that
right but speaking of pain i want to
know why is the book called can't hurt
me
there's some
i guess some inside [__] use to people
in there
but it's an overall message to people
that
we're all you know a lot of us are going
through a hard time in life some people
have been bullied some people are just
stressed out some people are insecure
some people are fat and overweight and
the world puts a lot of this [__] in
your mind
it's not just you yeah you help it
and my whole thing is about i had to
develop a mindset
a mindset that was indestructible i had
to armor plate my mind
and it's about what you're saying to
yourself but it also comes at work
so whenever i was getting beat down
physically mentally spiritually whatever
i was going through
just saying you know i would put you
know you can't hurt me can't hurt me
just became a message you know i would
say to myself
and that's just kind of where it comes
from
what i find so interesting is your
concept of the governor that basically
out of the chills that an expert is
somebody who's going to tell you
what your limits are rather than the
person that's out there practicing
getting you beyond the limit so what is
the governor and how do we strip it out
of our lives i believe that most human
beings are only living at about 40
of their capability
so
the mine has a governor like a car
if you're driving a car and the car has
a governor on it the car may say 130
miles an hour but the governor set for
91.
once that governor sets in you get to 91
that car starts doing this the car wants
to go the car wants to go but that
[__] factory said uh-uh we're not
going past 91. we have a factory a nice
governor in our brain and it's a
survival mechanism it protects us from
pain and suffering the second we feel
that [__] our mind says oh no this isn't
fun
we should back off we should sit down
find something more comfortable and
there's something about the mind the
mind has the tactical advantage over you
at all times
at all times of your life
the mind has a tactical advantage over
you why is that it knows what you're
afraid of it knows your insecurities it
knows your deep dark lies and it starts
to push you away from that [__] it
pushes you in a direction that is
comfortable
the mind
controls everything so what i realized
was that when i was growing up and i was
300 pounds and i got all fat and i got
all insecure i realized that my mind
kept taking me in this direction when
things got uncomfortable for me when i
was facing my insecurities i was facing
my fears my mind said oh no we have the
tactical advantage we need to get you
separate you from this feeling
this feeling over your life's all about
feelings we want the happy feeling we
don't want that feeling of this sucks
why am i here and you don't have any so
so you can't answer those questions so
you leave
i started realizing that if in that
moment
you can answer those [__] up questions
and you are now in charge of your brain
versus your brain ruling you
that's where all that stuff comes from
so so the 40
rule is all of that you get to 40
your brain says we're done let's roll
man this is starting to get painful this
is uncomfortable so you sit down
you have to figure out ways and
everybody's different that's how the
book kind of talks about like we all
have these things about you know
five steps to this and and four steps to
this it's a lot more than that that's
all [__]
it's it's a practice that you have to
it's a habit
so if you know that at 40 i'm still you
know i'm feeling pain
at 40 i'm feeling pain that's where the
40 rule kicks in
now it starts okay i'm i'm feeling pain
my mind's saying all this [__] to me
it's saying get out of here run flee the
fight or flight kicks in okay we're done
we're not good enough it starts telling
you all these things you start to
believe it because the mind controls all
this is the time where you have to gain
control back of your mind
it's okay let me see if i can go 45
and once you start giving yourself more
and more hope and start realizing okay
the mind starts to be okay what are you
doing we're supposed to be going right
and you're going left
you start then controlling your mind
start finding more in you know in
yourself and it goes from 40 to a lot
further than that but that's the start
of it though get to get to the spot
where your mind is saying stop
wherever that is
get there first and then that's when
that [__] starts to work for you you got
to control yourself in that moment
dude we're going to try to thread a
really powerful needle right now so
your response to all of that has been so
incredible so
all right mind has a governor it starts
to kick in when you hit pain you're
looking for areas of comfort
most people then live their entire lives
there they never try to get out of it
but you had such a fascinating response
you said two things which i think need
to be explored one is that you created
this alter ego goggins
which i think is insanely powerful and
it reminds me of eminem talked about the
same thing with creating slim shady was
it was the way he once had the persona
he could face his fears and he could get
up
and then the other thing was you said
you need to shut the [__] up and listen
but talking about just to yourself like
not to try to get a distraction not
social media not tv nothing like go in a
room by yourself and really listen how
do those two things the the creation of
the alter ego and that listening to the
the sort of dark hateful things that
you're probably saying to yourself how
do those work together so a lot of
people can live with themselves
that's the first thing a lot of people
can live with themselves look in the
mirror and say i'm okay with being
afraid
i'm okay with going on this easy highway
over here the easy highway has all these
[__] signs and [__] directions how to
get somewhere
and you have to first be uncomfortable
with how you feel about yourself with
that voice that a lot of us like to run
away from we all have it we all have
that voice to say hey man you know
you're you're kind of wimping out right
now you're kind of being a little punk
right now but a lot of us say okay
that's okay
it's okay to tell these little white
lies to ourselves so we first have to
face the real you
the real me is david goggins the real me
is a guy looking at you right now saying
i don't want to [__] be on this show
right now because i used to stutter as a
kid and i'm afraid of that i'm afraid
that here in a second i'm gonna start
[__] stammering and stuttering the
whole world's gonna know that i have all
these issues
but that's when i see right now okay
goggins you gotta go on this [__]
show
that's goggins
goggins is saying okay david goggins
you're a punk
life made you this way we can't live
like this we can't live in fear we can't
live in judgment
we can't be afraid of what the [__]
people right now are looking at me
saying about me we cannot be afraid of
that
that's goggins
yoga is saying [__] all of you who don't
like me who don't want to and that
person then comes in
but you have to be david goggins to say
man i'm afraid of this i'm [__] up
here
life made me this way here i stutter i
have these issues with with reading and
writing and
and i'm i'm fat and i'm insecure
you have to face that in that dark room
in that dark room is who you are
but in that dark room is where you have
to create
another human being that walks out of
that dark room
to face who you are
that's the only way you're going to get
over
all those things you have to create
someone else not like you have two
different personalities it is you
but you have to find strength and that
visualization of almost me
cracking out goggins like almost like
that superman cape like i'm coming out a
different person a person that doesn't
give a [__] about anything who doesn't
care about being judged who knows i'm
weak who knows i'm afraid who says
whatever you think about me take it
whatever i'm here
that's goggins
in the dark room
you face yourself
you realize you want to be better you
realize you don't want to be this weak
insecure person in the world he has all
these problems that we all have
we all have social media is a great
platform to tell you who we want to be
not who we are so that's where that dark
room is
i didn't know if you were going to be
able to surprise me today because i i
know you so well from sitting across
from you from researching you as much as
i have but i just really got emotional
as you were going through that because
it's so tempting to make you
extraordinary as a way to not have to
live up to your standard like even now
and i don't do it on purpose
because i know better than that and i
want to be extraordinary myself but even
i like i find myself getting caught up
in that and hearing you just now talk
about
still being nervous that you're gonna
start stammering like if if people
really hear that
you're the way that you are now not
because you pretend like you don't have
those things but because you face them
so fully
and that you're able to like look at
that be accountable and and talk so raw
to yourself
like dude that's when like again i have
the [__] chills because
when you think about what your what any
of us are going to be able to achieve in
our lives it's because we finally get
willing to look in the mirror and say
you're dumb you're fat
and i know right now people are freaking
out when they hear me say that
but talk to me about raw talk talk to me
about how you started talking to
yourself in the mirror because if they
get this david like this is the
transformational moment so in my book i
talk about a lot
is my junior year in high school
and i fell back a lot i fell back in
this [__] whole of life the second
you think that you've overcome it you
climbed everest you're on that last hold
and life will say
not today [__]
and it'll push you down
and my junior year in high school i uh
missed a whole bunch of school
was lining my mom had like a one point
something gpa i was just jacked up i
mean it was i was in one one of the
worst spots in my life
and my mom was going through a lot of
[__] too and she didn't have time to sit
back and baby me
and it was me against me
my pants were down to my knees i was
just i was
not whatever was going on i was in a bad
shape so i went to the bathroom and i
had this weird haircut because i wanted
attention
i was an attention getter i went to all
white school pretty much
um some of the kids liked me a lot of
them didn't like me whatever didn't
[__] matter i was looking for
something so i was dressed differently
crazy haircuts and i went to the mirror
and
the reflection in it revealed
a lot of bad things
a lot of things that i was hiding behind
the saggy pants and i'm looking at
myself in the mirror going like god dawg
dude you gotta you are something else
man like you have created a character i
want to be the cool guy table
and whatever i could do to to get
attention i did
it wasn't me it wasn't who i was inside
but i was scared for anybody to know who
i was inside
so in that accountability mirror i call
it i got real myself i said
you have a third grade reading level
which is hard to admit when you're a
junior in high school that you copied on
every single thing you did because
of fear they're gonna put me in a
special school we all know what special
means i'm gonna have a title on myself
the rest of my life
and being cool you don't have a title on
yourself so i started cheating
i was dumb and people say oh you know
you're a learning disability
out of learning disability but i
realized i was lazy
so
um i called myself out there i called
myself out every which way possible i
didn't call myself i was just honest
i was honest look at yourself man
look at yourself
and it was that day
in a couple of days after that i just
got real with myself and every day i
came home i called the accountability
mirror what am i gonna do today to
change what i see in this mirror
what am i gonna do today and a lot of it
was i stopped sitting with the cool guys
i actually tucked my shirt in went to
school looking like hey man this is how
i'm going to look if you don't like it
so be it i had to really wear this this
this layer of skin
i had to develop a really callous skin
on me to take whatever you're going to
call me you're going to call me whatever
i'm going to be you know i want a geek
but whoever i am you're going to see me
you're going to see me for who i am
because i need to change who i'm not
and that accountability just became raw
and i became fat over the years i fell
back in a hole i called myself fat
because i was fat and people don't want
to do that
they want to say oh don't call yourself
fat
don't call yourself dumb if you're not
real and raw with who the [__] you are
nothing's going to change and in this
nice new world that we live in we want
to hear
you're just a little big no man you
might be fat
and it's okay to hear that from yourself
and from arabella so that's where it
started at and it's raw it gets ugly
sometimes with me in that mirror
but i'm also proud of myself to be able
to tell myself that and then fix what's
in that mirror that that's what hits me
and that's what i really want people to
hear is that
you can say those things a because
they're true
and b because you can fix them right and
your whole life has been about
addressing those things so
walk us through how in the book
do you help people
start addressing it because that's what
i think so powerful about your book so
the first thing about it is once you
realize it and you have to realize you
got to call yourself out
addressing it is very small it's like it
doesn't go from like one morning um this
way next one i wake up and presto the
you know five steps to greatness no
it ain't that brother you read my book
this is hard work it's every day like
right now i had to be honest with you
man
i'm even shaking right now being on this
show i'm a big time introvert
how you address it is you face it
you face it every day you face it every
single day of your life
where you say okay like if you're fat
you need to lose weight
it's patience
it's patience in this fact of accepting
who you are right now i'm fat i don't
like myself
except in fact if you lose three or four
pounds
that's a huge accomplishment
you have to live in your own [__]
world you cannot judge yourself that's
why social media all these things are
horrible you can't judge yourself off of
the so-called competition that we have
made up in our mind
the things that how people look how
people like how smart someone is this is
a race that you run completely alone
and you're all by yourself i had tons of
sticky notes all over my mirror it
wasn't like be better than john or be as
fast as whoever okay david yesterday you
did this
today our next goal for the week is this
so i had a year goal
weekly goals daily goals hourly goals
and the big goals i lied a lot growing
up
i wanted to be accepted
one goal was let's go one day without
lying
let's go one day and then when i would
lie to somebody i would say hey man
now go i had to go back now and
apologize man i lied to you you know
hard it is to go back to somebody say i
lied to you
hey man you know what back there i lied
to you dude i was really jacked up so i
figured out these ways of total total
accountability like right now i had to
run this morning before i talk to you
because why
that's what i'm about
i'm about mind mad body fitness
a lot of folks talk so much [__]
about hey i'm going to change your life
i'm going to do so i'm going to do that
are you accountable for what you're
doing are you accountable and i mean to
the t
for what you're saying
i am and that's where it started it
started with that total total
accountability of let's not lie today
let's tell people the truth about who
you are and when you can get on and tell
someone like i'm doing right now exactly
how [__] up you are
that's the goal in life
to put your life on a billboard on the
busiest road in the busiest highway in
the world and say
this is how [__] up i used to be
take it or leave it the first time we
talked i didn't really understand um
why the
the um
being called a niger on your book and
you said that was one of the best things
that ever happened to me because the
principal told me oh they're just
ignorant
and you said that in that moment i
realized nobody was coming to save me
and it hit me right but it i didn't
really understand until i read the book
and
in reading the book really understanding
how
one thing after another from the abuse
from your father to fleeing that to your
mom being m.i.a and then thinking she's
finally found love and then the [__]
guy gets murdered the day after
christmas i was like did that
really no one came to save you no and
seeing that now and hearing you tell
these stories i realize like that's the
crux of the power
but how did you stop feeling sorry for
yourself
when you really sit back at your life
and you are in that dark room
and you're looking at where you started
from
and you tell yourself
god dawg man my mom is this way my
stupid step dad got murdered my dad beat
the [__] out of me
i can't read and write to say my [__]
soul i've lied about it to everybody
i've cheated on all these tests
my god man
and then you put a goal
in your mind
how are you going to feel man when you
accomplish this goal coming from that
[__]
coming from the [__] hell you came
from
a lot of people start from a good
starting point they have a good
foundation what if you can surpass all
these [__]
we have everybody who was [__] way up
here
started up here and you had you started
with no legs you had to grow [__]
legs to even start walking and then
crawling and then running and then you
start passing people and all that's
given to them
i had to use all this negative [__] that
was making me weak and horrible as a
person
i had to use this as the power that now
fueled me had to flip it on his head and
say hold up
this might be exactly what i need
the darkness
is exactly what i need it's how you look
at your situation
and i was looking at it all [__] up
in the book you tell people to make a
list
of everything working against them every
real valid excuse right why do you have
them do that
there's a lot of power in that list
so
in that list of
who you are what makes you [__] up all
these other things it goes back to once
again
accepting
you have to first accept it before you
can fix it
a lot of people walk around oh man i'm
good
i'm good no you're not
you have to accept what you're not
you have to and people don't want to do
that
that's the only way you can fix it
you have to accept it first before you
can go on the journey a lot of folks
never even start the journey man
they never start to join because they
live in this fake life
that who they want to be
they act like they are but they're not
because they haven't fixed all this
stuff yet
you got to fix this first before we can
start our journey in life so that's why
i haven't make this list you fix these
problems now your journey can begin
because you no longer care about how
people are judging you when when you
care more about how someone's judging
you you're going to stay right there
there's no forward momentum
so that's that's the thing about that
list all right speaking of
making that list accepting where you're
at so that you can address it
in the book you talk about like what the
things are that you're going to be doing
you're going to be putting the list
together how do people go about using i
don't know if it's the accountability
mirror how do they go about addressing
each of those issues okay
so
let's say the first one is
you're not the smartest person in school
i had that issue
so my big thing was how i addressed that
problem was
i had to sit down
each thing that is wrong with you has to
be a focal point
you can't look at this gigantic list and
say i gotta change all this [__] my god
this is crazy
no you take off the first one i want to
be smarter for me that was my thing i
have to i have to become more
intelligent
i have such a severe learning disability
i can't retain [__]
i had to now get that one thing
and then strategize in that one problem
how can i do this i'm not going to learn
like you i'm not going to learn like
anybody else how am i going to figure
this out so i then figured out okay
where are my strengths here where my
weaknesses in learning all right man
how am i going to do this and i figured
out
a way to do it
but it's strategizing so how i learn
to this day
if i have a big manual to study
i will have to get a bunch of spiral
notebooks
from the from the daggone store
and each page
i have to write each page out maybe 10
times
so there was a thousand page dive manual
that i got 18 months before i went to
dive school
most people
i'm not smart i'm a ghost if i can pass
this test i realized hang on a second
i'm not smart
how can i get past this how can i get
through this obstacle i need to get i
need to acquire this book 18 months in
advance because it could take me 18
months to write down
each page over and over again to then
put it to memory so when the question
came up
i i'd written that question so many
times down in that in on you know on
paper that i can recall okay page
71 was where i remember seeing this
and i can recall it that way
and that's how i did it so you got to
strategize on each problem you have in
life
slowly break down that problem don't
think about all the problems you have
just one at a time
and before you know it you fix all these
problems but you cannot focus on all of
them just on the one thing at a time if
you keep growing you're going to have
more to give and when you're growing and
giving is when life is magnificent it
doesn't matter how many statues oscars
they give you or emmys or how much money
you have in the bank we've all seen
people had all those things and i get
the phone call because they're depressed
or somebody commits suicide in that area
so it's really an inner game and i think
that's what's missing for us today